[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: John Sandbach
has been a devotee of tarot
for more than five
decades and says
he's discovered even more
complex meanings in each
of the cards.
The tarot archetypes
are in essence
a tool of communication
between you
and your guides or realms
of being surrounding us.
He's going to share with us
how to engage in the best way
to get the clearest
communication from your guidance
through your tarot cards.
Welcome.
>>JOHN SANDBACH: I'm so
happy to be here, Regina.
>>REGINA: I'm glad
to have you here.
We've had lovely conversation
off-camera about our shared
passion for color.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And the
meaning of color.
Vibration of color.
Healing power of color.
And we'll add a
little bit of that
into the conversation, which we
hadn't planned because everybody
watching this, I'm assuming,
has a direct relationship
with color.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Before we go into it,
so people can get to know you
a bit, how did you
originally become
so intrigued with and
ultimately engaged in the tarot?
>>SANDBACH: Well, I
had been an astrologer
for maybe six or eight years.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And I came across CC
Zain's book, "The Sacred Tarot."
And it just resonated with me.
I just felt the truth of it.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And I just
became obsessed with it.
And I read it over
and over and over.
And in his book he synthesizes
mathematics, numerology,
astrology, tarot, color,
all these different things,
he puts them together.
And so it really enriched
my astrology practice
because it gave me new
insights into all the planets
and signs via the tarot cards.
And so as time went on, I
started teaching astrology
and then I started
teaching tarot classes.
And then Ron Ballard and I, we
wrote a correspondence course
in the tarot and marketed that.
And then later, we put that
whole correspondence together
in a book that was
called "The Golden Cycle,
A Text On The Tarot," which was
the first version of the book
that we have today, "Soul
Journey Through The Tarot."
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Wow, OK, so that's
kind of a progression
over a long period of time--
>>SANDBACH: Yes, it is.
>>REGINA: --to
get to this point.
>>SANDBACH: It's been
over 50 years, yes.
>>REGINA: But tarot itself has
a longer progression, so let's
just get into a bit of the
history because, you know,
almost everybody says, oh,
the tarot came from Egypt.
But actually, I would argue it
came from somewhere far distant
and went other places.
So tell us your take on it.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
Well, I have psychic
images that have
come to my mind about
certain things and places.
One of them has to
do with the Kabbalah.
The major book of the
Kabbalah, in fact,
the groundwork text
of it is the "Zohar."
And the "Zohar" is
22 volumes long.
It's a very big book.
And those 22 volumes correspond
to the 22 cards of the Major
Arcana in the tarot.
And the vision I've had is
that in the city of Fez,
there were scholars and
wise people connected
with the Kabbalah who decided to
put together a visual "Zohar."
And so they came up with
the cards of the tarot.
I'm not sure how those cards
ended up going to Italy
because the earliest
tarot decks we know of
are from Italy in
the 14th century.
>>REGINA: But we know
it precedes that.
>>SANDBACH: Oh, yes.
>>REGINA: And I mean, some
would argue that it actually,
as with what ultimately
became the cards of destiny,
which is based on four suits
in a playing deck and numbers
as well--
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: --that those
were all Atlantean systems,
esoteric systems that kind
of made it out to Europe,
and you say to Mexico as well.
>>SANDBACH: I
believe that is true.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: And I think
one way of expressing
what the purpose
of the tarot is is
that it is taking the
sequence of numbers
and revealing how that sequence
expresses spiritual truth.
And then the pictures
are expressing
those spiritual truths
in symbolic form.
>>REGINA: So is there a specific
meaning in the number 22 then?
>>SANDBACH: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about
that just as we go into this.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
Well, you know, 22 in the
tarot is the only card
that has two numbers.
It's numbered 0 and
it's numbered 22.
And in the CC Zain system, 22
is Pluto, the planet Pluto.
And Pluto signifies
transformation.
So the purpose of the
tarot is to transform.
And you know, what we're
all doing here is evolving.
That's the most important
thing we're doing here
on this planet Earth.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And so as we tune in
to the force of transformation,
it helps us to move
through the changes that
lead us to enlightenment.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
And so you take it--
I mean, this is part
of the soul's journey
is the way you view
the use of tarot--
>>SANDBACH: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: --is it an
opportunity for the soul
and those intermediaries
who can help
speak, between the soul
and our conscious mind
to give us guidance
and information?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
And you know, that guidance
comes in all sorts of ways.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And I
think so often, we're
experiencing guidance when we
don't even consciously know
it's happening.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm,
I think so as well.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah.
So I think one of the
major arts of living
is to be able to attune to that
guidance, to be able to feel it,
and then to get
on that wavelength
and go with wherever
that wavelength takes us.
>>REGINA: Absolutely.
OK, so now we come
to your book, right?
And you stayed in there
that, originally, these cards
didn't have any images on them.
They were originally
sequences of numbers.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And so talk about
the original decks of cards
before the imagery.
And then we'll talk about why
you chose Egyptian iconography
in yours.
>>SANDBACH: I like
the cosmic quality
of the Egyptian iconography.
You know, I was trying to
resolve an astrological problem
connected with what's called
mundane astrology where you--
like, what place are we
going to use on Earth
to symbolize the whole Earth?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And what I
came up with was Giza.
And as my friend Ellias
Lonsdale the astrologer says,
Giza is a place for the
entry of stellar wisdom, star
energy into the Earth plane.
So I chose the
Egyptian iconography
because it reflects that
star energy, that very high
cosmic eternal quality.
>>REGINA: But initially,
no images at all.
>>SANDBACH: Right
because if you get
down to what's the purest thing
in the tarot, it's the numbers.
>>REGINA: So here we have
a system based on numbers
and numbers are orderly
and some people would say,
a lot of physicists would say,
and even quantum physicists
might say that numbers
and what they create,
geometry and so forth form--
are the building
blocks when coupled
with consciousness of life.
So that makes sense.
I mean, we're expressing
something very pure.
>>SANDBACH: Yes, it
definitely makes sense.
>>REGINA: So now tell us
originally what the suits were.
I guess, would
you call it suits?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yes, the suits
were with the cards.
>>SANDBACH: OK, so we
start counting 1, 2, 3.
And 1, 2, 3, those
numbers are prime numbers.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm
>>SANDBACH: They can't
be divided by anything
else except themselves and 1.
The first number we encounter
that is not a prime number is 4.
And in the tarot,
there are four suits.
And the suits signify elements.
And so the elements go from
the finest to the densest.
Fire is the finest
element and signifies
creativity and spirituality.
Then we have the suit of
coins, which is the air suit.
There's a conflict over
that I can talk about later.
But the air suit is
the suit of the mind
and it's the suit
of connectiveness.
The connection between
anything and everything, OK?
And so the suit of air, which
is coin, signifies thinking.
Then we have the suit of cups.
This is the suit
of the emotions.
And you know, one thing I've
been thinking about a whole lot
lately is, you know,
there's really--
all emotions except
for one are illusions.
And the one emotion that's
not an illusion is love.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm
>>SANDBACH: All other
emotions stem from love, even
the negative emotions.
>>REGINA: Like fear
of loss of love.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah, fear,
anger, frustration, sadness,
all these things--
>>REGINA: Are
separations from love.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly,
separations is the best way
to express that really.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Then
the final suit is
the suit of swords, which is the
Earth suit, the densest element.
It signifies all that
is substantial, all that
is here and stable, matter, OK?
And those numbers, in
my system of the tarot,
run between 65 and 78.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
OK, so now we have the
architecture of your deck.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: So here when you
chose the Egyptian deck,
are there other
people that have used
Egyptian iconography
in there books as well?
>>SANDBACH: Well, CC Zain did.
>>REGINA: Oh, CC Zain did?
OK, so that's what
the inspiration was?
>>SANDBACH: Yeah, it was.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: And I
think he even called
his deck the Egyptian deck.
>>REGINA: OK.
So let me ask you this before we
start drilling down into tarot
specifically because a lot of
people at this point are saying,
oh, but I have a
fairy deck and I have
a kiddie deck or a doggy deck.
And all of these wonderful
many, many people
have created decks that are
more called oracle decks.
>>SANDBACH: A voice
just said to me
the angels will use
whatever you got.
>>REGINA: They'll use-- so
if a person is into kitties
and their guides are
speaking to them,
they can legitimately
offer guidance
through their own oracle decks?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So all of
them have this kind
of spirit imbued in them.
But is there
essentially a difference
between tarot and oracle decks?
>>SANDBACH: Well, the
one thing you always
have to have in a
tarot deck is 78 cards.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: That number
is very important
and I could go
into why, but it's
kind of technical
with mathematics.
But it's very interesting.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Oracle decks can
have different numbers of cards.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And I think oracle
decks can be used, of course,
to connect with angels
and nature spirits--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --and teachers of
wisdom who are enlightened,
the bodhisattvas.
>>REGINA: It makes
sense because, I mean,
if you're the
person that created
the deck based on angels
or kitties or anything
that you love and
profoundly resonate with
and someone's coming to you
that also resonates with that,
you're in harmony
with the-- each other.
So this brings an
initial harmony
and then you can work on
your guidance together.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And I don't think if my
deck as being separate,
I would go to a person
that uses the kitty deck
and I'd say let's look
at what you're doing
and I want to help enhance
what you're already doing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: You know,
help bring more wisdom
and understanding into what
you already have tuned into.
>>REGINA: Right, OK.
So now we're going to go
into the history of the deck
as most of us see it
because some of us
don't resonate with
tarot for a reason.
And that has to do--
what was it called?
The Rider-Waite deck,
the original deck
that most people
are familiar with.
Tell us a bit of the history
of it, how it was illustrated,
and just take it away why you
don't resonate with some of it,
and why some of us
are afraid of them.
>>SANDBACH: Well, we
start from the principle,
there are no bad or good cards.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Any card in
the tarot, the energy of it
can be used in a negative
way or a positive way,
just like a knife can
be used to cut out
an appendix that needs to be
taken out or can murder someone.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: So the problem
with the weight deck
is they portray some cards
as negative and other cards
as positive.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And
sometimes the imagery
they use on these cards is
very grim, is very scary,
or has a feeling of
disaster about it.
>>REGINA: How was that--
I mean, was that the preference
of the creator of the deck?
>>SANDBACH: No.
Arthur Edward Waite was very
focused on the Major Arcana.
He was very concerned about the
symbology of those cards, which
are 22 in number.
The 56 Minor Arcana
cards, he allowed
Pamela Colman Smith, an
artist, to design those cards.
And when she went to
get feedback from him
on, how do these look?
I've finished these cards
and whatever, he just
said, oh, you do whatever
you want with those.
I'm not really interested
in those cards.
I'm only interested
in the Major Arcana.
>>REGINA: But she must have
had her own esoteric training
or understanding or belief
system she brought to the table
in illustrating them.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
You know, I'd like to
look into her background
and know more about--
>>REGINA: Who she was.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah,
who she was and how
she thought and like that.
>>REGINA: Because it ended
up with this deck that
has some pretty scary images.
I know I didn't resonate with
tarot because I don't want
to see a person being stabbed
with swords and a skull of death
and I don't want to see that.
I just don't like those images.
They're a little traumatizing.
>>SANDBACH: Yes, I
make jokes about how--
so the scariest card
in that Waite deck
is the man laying face
down with a black sky
and he has 10 swords
stuck in him in a row.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: And I call
that the acupuncture card.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>SANDBACH: And I
want to redo that card
where it's a man laying face
down like he's in a spa.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: And he has
these little acupuncture
needles stuck in him
and they're glowing,
lights coming out of them.
I think that'd be beautiful.
>>REGINA: But the point
is that a lot of people
are turned off because
of these images.
>>SANDBACH: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: Because,
regardless of what
the person is about
to say to you,
yeah, you're seeing
something that represents
death or maiming or separation.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah, and so
that's not really necessary.
>>SANDBACH: No, not at all.
>>REGINA: And so you
chose to, in your cards,
eliminate that kind of imagery?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And of course, another card
like in the Major Arcana
is the one in which in the
Waite deck is called the devil.
>>REGINA: Yes, yeah.
>>SANDBACH: Well, the
devil, his horns have to do,
I feel, with that ancient
Celtic god Cernunnos, which was
of the ancient feminine-based
nature religions
of Europe that
predated Christianity.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And Cernunnos,
of course, had horns.
And so the Christians, wanting
to defame those old religions--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --turned
him into Satan.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
And so here it is,
it's still haunting us.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah.
And so in my deck, he's called
the musician and he has--
from the waist down, he's
a goat, like, a satyr,
and he's playing
the Pan's pipes.
And when he plays
the Pan's pipes,
all the different notes
harmonize together
to produce all of nature.
>>REGINA: So what is the
essential meaning of that card?
You put your imagery on
it that it represents
the notes of nature,
normally in tarot, what
does the devil card represent?
>>SANDBACH: Limitation and--
>>REGINA: Well, how do
you square your card
with limitation?
>>SANDBACH: Well,
according to Kabbalah,
the most spiritual
thing in the world
is limitation because,
you know, Regina,
we're sitting here right
now with each other
and we only have a
limited amount of time.
And in not that long,
we're both going to die
and we're going to pass
on into other forms.
So we're very limited
now in time and space.
And so limitation compresses
the light and intensifies it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SANDBACH: And so restriction--
the purpose of restriction,
all the seemingly bad
things that happened to us,
we can learn from them.
They concentrate and focus
our spiritual energy.
And that's what
that card is about.
And the reason I think
it's depicted as the devil
is because no one
likes limitation.
>>REGINA: Well, that
would make sense.
That would make sense.
Nobody likes limitation
because it creates
resistance and friction.
And you have to find a way
to either flow with it,
work around it, try
to crash through it.
>>SANDBACH: Yes, but we
learn two major things
about limitation as we grow.
Number one is it's an illusion.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES] Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: And number
two is it's temporary.
>>REGINA: Yes, it is temporary.
But that's--
>>SANDBACH: And so actually,
limitation has its own beauty.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: That card
is ruled by Saturn.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And in the
Indian system of astrology,
Saturn is thought of as the
most spiritual of the planets.
>>REGINA: And in Western
astrology, you hear Saturn
and people want to run and pull
their covers over their heads.
>>SANDBACH: Oh, they call
it the greater malefic.
>>REGINA: Right.
So let's talk about this
misunderstood nature of Saturn
in general.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
Saturn is always pushing us
toward greater spirituality
and there's a very big tension
between that and materialism.
And so materialism, we get
focused on our attachments, OK?
Saturn teaches us to
let go of attachments.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And Saturn is kind.
I want to tell you about a
really strange thing that
happened to me that was really
one of the most wonderful events
of my life that was recent.
>>REGINA: Does it have
to do with Saturn?
>>SANDBACH: Yes, it does.
>>REGINA: Please, tell.
>>SANDBACH: Oh, yes, I was
in a car, in a limousine
and there was a Black man
with a top hat standing.
And he needed a ride
and he had a cane.
And I waved to him, I said,
we could give you a ride.
And he got in the car
and it was Baron Samedi.
Do you know who that is?
>>REGINA: No.
Who is this?
>>SANDBACH: He is an Orisha
of the voodoo religion.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>SANDBACH: He is Saturn.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>SANDBACH: Samedi
means Saturday.
>>REGINA: Wow.
>>SANDBACH: And Saturday
means Saturn's day.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: And he was so
kind with me in that dream,
so gentle, so
supportive, you know?
And one of the things
that he impressed
upon me was that,
you know, we're
not meant to reach
perfection this moment.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: We can do
it at our own pace.
But the important thing is
that we keep focused on it.
That's what's really important,
that we don't lose that focus.
>>REGINA: So without a little
bit of pressure and restriction,
limitation, we probably
wouldn't bump up
against those parts of ourselves
that we're trying to transform?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And you know what happens?
If we get that pressure
from the restriction
and we kind of ignore it--
>>REGINA: Oh, it'll
show us another way.
>>SANDBACH: Either that and/or
the pressure will get more.
>>REGINA: Yeah, oh, yeah.
>>SANDBACH: It'll push harder.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: So if you
don't want to be pushed on,
just keep evolving.
>>REGINA: So the devil
shows up in your deck
if you've had a reading.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So basically, this is
to say pay attention,
there's an area we
really need to focus on.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And it could say too there
could be hardships here
that you're moving
through, but you know,
there's something to be
learned from these hardships.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: So try to
be open to learning.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Let the
learning happen.
Be accepting of the
hardship and that's
the very thing that
ultimately will dissolve it.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Wonderful.
So this is a good lesson
on Saturn in general.
>>SANDBACH: I love Saturn.
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES] So what
other cards do you particularly
love in the deck?
>>SANDBACH: Oh, you know, first
thing that always comes to mind
is the star.
I love that card.
It's the naked woman pouring
water onto the land--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: --and into the lake.
And in the star--
in the sky above
her is eight stars,
seven little ones, and then one
big one right over her head.
I heard this wonderful
lecture on that card one
time that was very--
made a deep impression on me.
And what the person said was
that that star above her, what
that is, is the imagination.
>>REGINA: How beautiful.
>>SANDBACH: And all
those other seven stars
are the forces of, like,
astrology and reality
that are always reacting on
us and pushing and pulling
on us in different ways
and doing different things.
And the point of it is, if we
give in to just those forces,
we're giving in to fate.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: We're
being fatalistic.
But the big star up
there is our imagination.
>>REGINA: Which has
to do with free will.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
And through free will and
through our imagination,
we can overcome the
limitations of fate.
That's what that card is about.
>>REGINA: Beautiful.
>>SANDBACH: And it's
ruled by the sign Gemini.
>>REGINA: So what
would the card be
that you would most
often encounter
if it was time to
make a change and you
were being invited forward?
>>SANDBACH: Well,
actually, I'd say
there are five cards like that.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: One is, of
course, the Arcanum 22,
which you brought up,
which is called the fool.
And then the aces
are all four ruled
by Pluto as well as Arcanum
22, so the aces of the tarot.
>>REGINA: And their point
is it's time for change?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: OK, and just in case
people have their deck out
and they're playing with
it while we're talking,
I wanted to get
into a few of these.
What's the opposite
of that one to say
stop, take stock, don't have
rapid forward movement right
now?
What would those cards be?
>>SANDBACH: Oh, they
could be the swords.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: The
swords are like that.
And also the tens are
like that in a sense.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And of course, the Saturn card.
>>REGINA: And the Saturn card.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
OK, so now we're going to try
to find a deck for ourselves
and we're going to start
playing with it, right?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: First of
all, where do we go?
Well, we have your deck, right?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Where do
you go if you don't
want to have those devil
cards and the scary cards?
>>SANDBACH: The CC Zain deck--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --is very good.
>>REGINA: CC Zain.
>>SANDBACH: It's called
the Sacred Tarot.
And I think it might be
called the Egyptian Tarot too.
>>REGINA: OK, well, everybody
will be online, looking it up.
All right, so there you go.
And so you can start playing
with it yourself a little bit?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And you know, I don't get
out and look at tarot decks
that much.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: I'm not that aware
of all the different ones,
you know?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: I like this
deck, but it's very extreme.
>>REGINA: Tell me why
it's-- first of all,
I looked at it before we started
rolling here and it's all
abstract form and color.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah, yeah.
In other words, they've taken
out all human imagery out of it.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SANDBACH: You know, so
you can see some of these.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah.
And there was an artist,
a Norwegian artist
named Hilma af Klint.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And her paintings
are very, very metaphysical.
And now what they're saying
about her is her work
predates all those abstract
artists that supposedly
started the abstract movement.
>>REGINA: Right, right.
>>SANDBACH: Well,
they were all men.
Her art was not given much
attention at the time, I think,
mainly because she was a female.
>>REGINA: Sure, of course.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah.
So now it's being
given great attention.
And these two women
in New York, they
have channeled her energy
to design these 78 cards.
>>REGINA: You look at
it and you think, gosh,
where does one begin?
But it does have a
title for each card.
And by the way, you changed
some of the names of cards.
>>SANDBACH: I do
change the names--
>>REGINA: Like the
devil to the magician.
So on a deck like this,
it's like there's nothing
that could startle anyone.
>>SANDBACH: No, uh-uh,
no, they're very soft.
>>REGINA: They're very soft?
But you say this is
kind of a radical deck.
Why?
>>SANDBACH: Well, in that it's
the only deck I know of that
does use complete abstraction.
>>REGINA: Just
geometry and color?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Just, yeah,
pure frequencies.
>>SANDBACH: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: One of the
things about tarot--
before we get into having you
give us some guidance of how we
start engaging with our own
deck and learning and using
our intuition,
before we get there--
is the notion you talk about,
which is that time is--
doesn't matter if it's a
psychic reading or what
or whether it's your own tarot
reading by yourself or others,
time is always an issue.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And a lot
of people want to know
when, when is this
going to happen?
And that is really
quite difficult.
But you say you can
kind of get indications.
>>SANDBACH: Well, Baron
Samedi's laughing right now
and he's saying, when you
make it happen, that's when
it's going to happen.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>>SANDBACH: So go there
and make it happen.
>>REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
When do you want that to happen?
>>SANDBACH: Yeah, or when
will you be ready for it?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So time can be an issue.
So don't say next week.
Is this going to
happen next week?
That's not a good-- there are
other do's and don'ts too as you
start playing with the cards,
which is certain questions like
you don't really ask yes and no.
That's kind of a
waste of the cards.
>>SANDBACH: It is, yes.
>>REGINA: Let's talk about how
you start talking with the cards
because the formation
of the questions
is probably more
important than anything.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
Questions like, what do I
need to know right now--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --or
what would be good
for me to focus on right now?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Those are
excellent questions.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: Or what am I
learning from this because, you
know, the beauty of
that one is if it's
something you don't like, if
you learn what you need to learn
from it, it'll go away.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: The
lesson will go away
when you don't need it anymore.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
OK.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah.
>>REGINA: All right, so the way
you ask your question, so when--
like I write down here,
you say in the book, like,
will I get married?
Now tell us how
someone could better
ask a question like that, that
would serve the answer-- where
the answer would really
serve them in a deeper way.
>>SANDBACH: I start
talking to them and I say,
well, are you dating anybody?
Or you know, like that.
And maybe they'll tell me that
they've been looking for someone
and just haven't found it.
And so then maybe I
might ask the cards,
what is the vibrations
around this situation?
And sometimes
maybe what comes up
is there's somebody there
that you're destined to meet,
destined to marry,
but it's all--
the time is not right yet.
>>REGINA: Right.
And sometimes might it be
there's something in yourself
that needs to be resolved?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
If you're alone, it's
because you need to be alone.
And so that's
another thing I might
do is I might ask the question,
what is this person learning
from being alone?
Because once again,
if they learn
what they need to learn from
it, they won't be alone anymore.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: The
situation will go away.
>>REGINA: So if someone would
ask even the more direct
question like, why
have I not connected
with my partner or my
true companion yet?
That might be a fair
question to ask?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
And you know,
sometimes what happens
is I'll end up asking that
person some question that
seems off the subject or I don't
even know why I'm asking it.
And things will happen.
Like they'll burst into tears.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And it's
almost like, great, there
was this spark that ignited
and now all these emotions come
pouring out,
surrounding this issue.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And so that can
often be a very powerful
clearing--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: --a
clearing of the energy
that then makes way for
what they're looking for.
>>REGINA: OK.
And then on the
other hand, we have
to remember because
there is free will.
this is what I always
find interesting, is when,
whether it's through psychic
readings or tarot readings, when
a person is asking
about something having
to do with another person
or a group of people
or a corporation, there
are so many moving parts.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
And you know, some
people kind of maybe
treat life like it's a movie.
And so, like, I'll have somebody
come to me and they'll say,
oh, I'm not--
I want a reading but I don't
want to know about myself.
I want to know about
my granddaughters
and their husband's
job and their children.
Are they going to school?
And it's almost
like, um, I think
you can do readings
like this, but I
think they are disempowering.
They're weakening.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
Explain that more.
>>SANDBACH: Well, what I
think about that person who
asked me those questions
is, where are you at?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: What are you into?
What's going on with you?
So I try to bring
it back to that.
>>REGINA: So when you
encourage people to do readings
and you encourage them to
have some kind of ritual,
it doesn't have to be a
big deal but just kind of
have a starting place where
you're setting your intention.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK.
And that can be pretty much
anything, light a candle,
say a little prayer?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: One of
my things that I've
been thinking about
doing lately that I like
is I get Orisha readings
from a candombl priest that
comes from South America.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I don't have any
idea what you're talking about.
>>SANDBACH: Candombl
is a variety of voodoo.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: And so when
he does these readings,
he has these seed beads
in a very long piece.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And
he'll lay them out
on the table in a circle
like that, you know?
And then he'll do
the reading in there.
I think that's a
very nice thing.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
>>SANDBACH: The
beads feel protective
and they feel like they're
holding the energy in kind
of in concentrating it,
focusing it, that sort of thing.
>>REGINA: And where do you
put voodoo in all of this?
Because you mentioned in the
dream also about the voodoo
master.
And where do you put
that in all of this
in your own kind
of inner dialogue?
Because a lot of people think of
voodoo as scary, but it's not.
>>SANDBACH: Hollywood has--
>>REGINA: It's done that.
It's not scary.
>>SANDBACH: No, it's not.
Voodoo is just like the tarot
and that these forces can
be used for negative and they
can also be used for positive.
And so the candombl priest that
I work with, he would tell you,
you know, if you use
these forces for negative,
they'll come back on you.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: You don't
want to do that.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: Know you're
playing with something
that's very dangerous.
>>REGINA: Yeah, I remember
reading some deep lessons
on what is called voodoo,
which in fact is simply
operational principles of
affecting the material world
through intention and mind.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
I've met some
people recently too
who are aligned with medicine
people in the Amazon jungle.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And that's
like voodoo too.
These are like nature religions.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And they're
meant to help people.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: They can heal.
They cure.
The candombl priest, when we're
driving in the car with him--
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: --we're
driving in the car
and he goes, oh, pretty
tree, pretty tree.
Look at the pretty tree.
Oh, cloud, beautiful
cloud, you know?
And he says, as you put out this
joy for nature and appreciation
of it, it's all--
it's like a mirror.
It reflects right back at you.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: Then that energy
is coming back at you.
>>REGINA: So there's
always coming back
to your own mindset
and your own clarity,
emotions, intentions
in the moment?
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So on that
note, you have read--
you wrote in the book that
if you're getting a reading
or doing one for yourself or
getting a reading from someone
else but it's based
on extreme anxiety
because life isn't
going the way you want
or a need for a
quick validation,
this is not a good mindset to
start a tarot reading from.
>>SANDBACH: Right.
>>REGINA: And a lot of people
are starting from there.
>>SANDBACH: You know, the
imagery that comes to mind
is when you go
down into the ocean
and you want to
look at something,
you don't want to stir
up the silt at the bottom
because then you
get this big cloud
and you can't see anything.
>>REGINA: You have to be
gentle as you progress into it.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So explain
that a little bit more
because you must
have a lot of people
that are coming to
you full of anxiety
and with a need for validation.
What do you tell them to start?
>>SANDBACH: You know, people
need attention and not
generic attention.
They need quality attention.
So I try to give them
quality attention
and ask them what they're
feeling anxiety about
and then work with
that via the tarot.
>>REGINA: OK, OK.
So they can come with
that but you have
to address it up front really?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
And what I've noticed too is
when I'm talking to someone,
sometimes my words feel, mm,
just kind of like they're there.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And then sometimes
I'll say something to someone
and it's like all of a
sudden, they're in bold--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --and
they're lit up in light.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And I'm thinking,
OK, now I'm on the right track.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SANDBACH: Keep on
that one, you know?
So I'll keep on that wavelength.
>>REGINA: So now we're
going to the person.
This is how-to part.
So we have done
our little ritual.
We've let our candle.
We've set our intention.
And we're going
to start learning
how to play with the deck.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: OK, so we're going
to lay cards down however
it says to in the
instruction manual, right?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And then
how do we learn
to engage our trusting,
our intuitive self?
And how do we learn to
trust that intuition?
I mean, how do you start as a
beginner with a deck like that?
It's just numbers and you look
up the meaning in the book?
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
For one thing is I think
it's very important that you
write everything down.
>>REGINA: Write your
questions down beforehand?
>>SANDBACH: Write your
question down and write down
the cards you get.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: Because then
you can go back and look--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: --and see,
as the situation unfolds,
how those cards
reflected that situation.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH:
Oftentimes, at first,
they will seem to have
no particular relation
to the situation.
>>REGINA: Yeah, that's
what I've noticed.
>>SANDBACH: And then later--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: --it'll
come clearer.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: And a
beautiful thing to do
is every day, pick either
one, say, or three cards,
do a three-card or one-card
reading on the day.
Then at the end of the day, go
back and look and say, you know,
how did my--
how was my day reflected
in these cards?
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: That's a
marvelous way of learning.
>>REGINA: Oh, that's wonderful.
OK, so I'm going to ask you
if you shuffle those a little
and you do a little three-card
reading for yourself
and kind of clue us
into what it has to say.
>>SANDBACH: OK.
>>REGINA: And how
you'd interpret it,
so we can see the simplest
way to engage, to begin with.
>>SANDBACH: OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
You're forming a
question or an intention?
>>SANDBACH: Well, I'm thinking
about how yesterday I did
a three-card reading for today.
And one thing that happened
is it added up to 120.
>>REGINA: What's that mean?
>>SANDBACH: That's a
really powerful number.
>>REGINA: And here we are.
>>SANDBACH: And Baron
Samedi reminded me
that 120 is the numbers 1
through 15 all added together.
>>REGINA: Oh, interesting.
OK.
>>SANDBACH: So 120 relates
to 15 in a very special way.
It's like the completion
or fulfillment of 15.
>>REGINA: OK, and
that was today.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah,
>>REGINA: And this is
probably toward the center
of your activities today.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
Powerful.
So let's see what you get now.
>>SANDBACH: OK, what question
do you think I should ask?
I mean, I could say, what's the
rest of my day going to be like
or I could say--
>>REGINA: I would say
what's 2024 for me?
>>SANDBACH: OK.
>>REGINA: Yeah, for you.
>>SANDBACH: For me?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: 2024 for me.
That's a good question.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: OK.
A little scary to do because--
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>SANDBACH: --this
is for a whole year.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it's
for a whole year,
just to see if there's a theme--
>>SANDBACH: I'm making a joke.
It's not scary at all.
>>REGINA: --a
theme that pops up.
>>SANDBACH: Well, the
card is-- the first card
in the middle is judgment,
which is Arcanum 20.
>>REGINA: Uh-huh.
>>SANDBACH: The first
card is the four of cups.
>>REGINA: And what
does that mean?
>>SANDBACH: The four of
cups is the Jupiter of cups.
In other words, Jupiter
is very expansive.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: It's reaching out.
>>SANDBACH: OK.
And the last card is
the four of wands.
So the first thing we really
notice here, there's two fours.
It's a very Jupiterian year.
Now it's very easy to see the
positive meaning of Jupiter
because it's
abundance, it's wealth.
It's--
>>REGINA: Everyone
loves Jupiter.
>>SANDBACH: Yeah, growth.
The negative side of
Jupiter is too much.
>>REGINA: Excess.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
>>SANDBACH: So I think I'm
going to have to make a lot
of decisions as to
what to leave out--
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: --and
what to focus on.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SANDBACH: And then
this card in the middle,
Judgment is ruled by the moon.
And so the moon is about
living moment to moment,
living day to day, and
going with the flow.
So this is almost
telling me, don't make
a bunch of long range plans.
Just go with what-- as it
comes with what comes up.
>>REGINA: Could it also
be with the word judgment
"don't attach to story"?
>>SANDBACH: Sure.
>>REGINA: Because we're going
to be hit with a lot of drama
in the few years ahead of us?
Drama is going to
be center stage?
>>SANDBACH: Yes, exactly.
>>REGINA: So this would be
saying, go with the flow,
don't attach, don't go--
and maybe even don't
go into judgment about
everything playing out
around us.
>>SANDBACH: And what you
just said too kind of
goes along with the two
Jupiters on either side
because there are going to be
a lot of stuff in this coming
year.
>>REGINA: Oh, yeah.
In fact, I just got
the same message,
not through tarot
cards, but very directly
about the subject of judgment
when I did a meditation
and chatted with
my beings recently.
It was about judgment.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: And it was really
quite beautiful about what
happens if we can be
there, be part of it,
be witness, let it,
like you say, flow
through us without
creating resistance
if it's not our
preference because that
wastes a lot of spiritual
energy to go into resistance.
>>SANDBACH: And since
you're a being of light,
when it flows through you, it
gets filtered and processed
and it comes out the other
side cleaner and clearer.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
So that's good.
That's really you're reading
kind of for all of us.
>>SANDBACH: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Yeah, it
wasn't just your reading.
>>SANDBACH: No, that's--
>>REGINA: [CHUCKLES]
>>SANDBACH: This is
definitely what it feels like.
>>REGINA: That's fascinating.
>>SANDBACH: Let me see if
I can do this in my head,
but the four of cups is 54.
That's the number.
Then 20 for the middle card.
And then the 4 of wands is 68.
So what's 68 plus 54 and 20?
>>REGINA: OK, so I'm
just doing a quick little
add because we're
under pressure here.
Normally, I can do it
in my head in seconds.
So here we're got 142.
>>SANDBACH: 142.
>>REGINA: Roughly.
>>SANDBACH: And so
that adds up to--
>>REGINA: 142 for the
whole lot of them.
>>SANDBACH: And 1 and
4 and 2 add up to 7.
>>REGINA: Well, that's
change and transformation,
spiritual transformation.
>>SANDBACH: And it's
transcending too.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: It's rising above.
>>REGINA: So I think that's
our tarot message for the year.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Transformation,
rising above,
don't hold fast to
judgments, and be
ready to decide what
has to be discarded
and what's worth remaining.
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Excellent, we just got
a global tarot reading from you.
I love it.
Well, any final thoughts?
Because there's so much.
And people just have to
get them in their hands
and play with them.
One more question, does
it matter whether it's
right side up or upside down?
>>SANDBACH: You know,
I don't go with that.
>>REGINA: Yeah, a
lot of people don't.
So let's just-- let's say no.
It's just the card.
>>SANDBACH: I like that.
>>REGINA: That's
the answer to that.
Any final thoughts
before we sign off here?
>>SANDBACH: One idea I really
love is when you draw a card
and you just think,
what does that mean?
I don't know how that relates.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SANDBACH: I'm drawing a
blank on that one, that's
so powerful because you're at
the edge of your understanding.
And if you focus on that
card and really you, say,
read about it, meditate
on it, think about it,
you can grow in your knowledge
and understanding of that card
and how it relates
to your situation.
And this will greatly advance
your knowledge of the tarot
because you're working with the
parts you don't yet comprehend.
>>REGINA: Wonderful.
Well, thank you.
This has been a
really fun journey
through the history of tarot
and how we can personally
start engaging with it.
For people like me
who are intimidated,
I don't want one of those decks
with devils and people dead.
I'd rather have the one--
>>SANDBACH: It doesn't suit you.
>>REGINA: I'd rather have
the acupuncture version.
[CHUCKLES]
>>SANDBACH: Yes.
>>REGINA: Well, thank you so
much for the work you've done
and beautiful
illustrations in your book.
>>SANDBACH: Thank you for
a wonderful interview.
I really enjoyed spending
time here with you.
>>REGINA: Thank you.
Thank you.
Well, the name of John's
book is "Soul Journey
Through The Tarot."
You can find it
anywhere books are sold.
You can also take a deeper
examination of John's cards
by going to
johnsandbach.net where
you can also schedule a personal
tarot reading if you wish.
I don't if you have the time,
but if you have some time--
>>SANDBACH: Oh, yes, I do.
I most certainly do.
>>REGINA: Good.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]